# **[5 Ways that AI is Transforming the Design Industry]{.mark}**

It is very likely that you recently saw a remarkable piece of art on
someone's social media and got the shock of your life when you found out
it was AI-generated. For many people, this has actually been their first
interaction with recent AI-based content. AI is pretty much the buzzword
for 2023

With text-based AI tools like DALLE, creating stunning visuals has never
been easier. You tell the AI the sort of image you want using text
descriptors and hit enter. Within moments, you get the artwork you've
been looking for. However, there is so much more to this exponentially
growing AI tech.

With AI tools becoming more intuitive, soon everyone will be able to
express their ideas artistically. However, with this rise of
AI-generated art comes the question---will AI replace designers? Then,
where does this leave the design industry?

More importantly, how is AI transforming the design industry as a whole?
Let's explore.

## **1.** **Reducing Time**

DALLE generates an image within seconds. DALLE 2.0 is on its way and it
will be even quicker and even more accurate. As AI technology advances,
speed and accuracy will be the most significant benefits for designers.
AI integration in the design industry can save both time and money by
enabling faster and more efficient design processes.

AI\'s major plus is its ability to analyze massive amounts of data. It
can do that and simultaneously provide suggestions for design
improvements... all within seconds. Designers can handpick the best
suggestions and approve the adjustments based on that data. In addition,
open to all AI gear like AI logo maker tools can assist designers in
[[creating logos and other
graphics]{.underline}](https://www.logodesign.net/logos). With
AI-generated designs, designers can quickly create multiple prototypes
for A/B testing, leading to more effective designs that resonate with
users.

## **2.** **Increased Personalization**

Designers often have to tackle mundane tasks such as localization and
creating the same graphics in multiple languages. However, with the rise
of AI, designers can now work smarter and more efficiently. Streaming
giant Netflix is already leveraging augmented intelligence systems to
translate [[artwork
personalization]{.underline}](https://netflixtechblog.com/artwork-personalization-c589f074ad76)
and localization of show banners into various languages. This has been
their practice since 2017. By analyzing the master version, the system
produces personalized and localized graphics at a rapid pace. Designers
simply need to approve or reject the graphics and manually adjust them
if necessary, freeing up time for more creative and strategic work.

## **3.** **Images Enhancement Made Easier**

Photo editing has come a long way since Calvert Richard Jones manually
blacked out a Capuchin monk in a [[photograph in
1841]{.underline}](https://timesofmalta.com/articles/view/four-friars-not-five.805299).
Nowadays, designers use advanced software to fix imperfections in
photos. AI-based image enhancement tools can take it a step further by
easily transforming pixelated, noisy, blurry images into high-quality,
sharp ones and fixing poor lighting, contrast, and color. AI tools such
as Vance AI, Upscaleics, Remini, and Let\'s Enhance replace blurry or
pixelated areas with higher-quality ones, sharpen objects, and restore
them without any information loss. However, AI image enhancement tools
are not perfect and may result in weird-looking images.

## **4.** **More Collaboration Among Designers**

Collaboration among designers is bound to become more seamless with the
help of AI. Designers can leverage AI-based tools to communicate in
real-time, exchange ideas, and even co-create designs. A shared
workspace that every designer can access, with the ability to make
changes in a shared platform, can also be created using AI. With these
advancements, designers can work more efficiently and quickly, share and
revise their work without starting from scratch, and produce
high-quality designs. The seamless communication and revision process
will allow designers to create the best version of their designs in a
shorter amount of time.

## **5.** **A New Age Designer Emerges**

With all this AI tech, a new type of designer can emerge. This is the
designer that doesn\'t need to be a master of traditional artistic
techniques. Instead, this designer needs a deep understanding of how to
leverage technology to create stunning visuals.

The emergence of tools like NVIDIA Canvas and DALL-E have lowered the
barriers to entry for individuals who want to create
professional-looking designs without the need for advanced artistic
skills. With these tools, anyone can create beautiful, high-quality
images and designs.

This [[democratization of
design]{.underline}](https://uizard.io/blog/democratizing-design-a-conversation/)
will enable people with unique perspectives and ideas to break into the
industry and create visuals that resonate with audiences in new and
innovative ways. The design landscape is about to become more diverse
and inclusive. And the range of styles and approaches is also about to
get wider.

It could be that these AI tools assist in the creation of designs. But
can they truly replace the creative vision and strategic thinking of a
skilled designer? Not really. Eventually it will come down to someone
that uses their skill to use AI properly. Designers who can combine
their artistic talent with correct knowledge of AI? They are the ones
who truly stand out in the industry and create exceptional visuals that
capture attention and inspire action.

## **Conclusion**

In conclusion, AI is rapidly transforming the design industry, bringing
about new tools that can help designers create stunning visuals faster,
more efficiently, and with increased personalization. The emergence of
AI-based tools like DALL-E and NVIDIA Canvas have significantly lowered
the barriers to entry for individuals who want to create
professional-looking designs without the need for advanced artistic
skills. Design is becoming more democratized. And this will create a
more diverse and inclusive design landscape. With AI collaborations, the
ranges of design styles are about to get even more plentiful. AI can
help unlock barriers to thought that can sometimes set in when nothing
seems new anymore. However, while AI-based design tools can assist in
the creation of designs, they cannot replace the creative vision and
strategic thinking of a skilled designer. The future of design lies in
the hands of designers who can combine their artistic talent with the
power of AI-based design tools.
